hey this is press tell Walker and you're
watching mind your decisions
it was the problem that left some of the
smartest math students in the state
stumped and was described as one of the
hardest problems they ever encountered
reports pallavi single in The Sydney
Morning Herald this problem was given to
17 year old students in Australia I
tried it and honestly I would not have
solved it in an exam I benefited from a
video explanation by Phillip Liang who
was the top student in the state I
encourage you to check out the video and
there's a clickable link in the video
description so what was the problem in
triangle ABC point D is chosen on site a
B and point E is chosen on site AC so
that de is parallel to BC and BC divided
by de is equal to the square root of two
the process is repeated two more times
point F is chosen on side BC and point G
is chosen on side B a so that FG is
parallel to C a and C a divided by F G
is equal to the square root of two point
H is chosen on side C B and point a is
chosen on side C a so that H I is
parallel to B a and B a divided by H I
is equal to the square root of two the
segment's F G and H I intersect F X D E
and H I intersect at y and d e and f G
intersect at Z there are two parts of
this question first prove that dy is
equal to ze and second find the exact
value of the ratio Y Z divided by BC can
you figure it out give this problem a
try and when you're ready keep watching
the video for a solution
so let's get started with the diagram we
need to prove that dy is equal to ze now
one of the reasons this problem is
complicated is because it's a little bit
of an alphabet soup so one of the
benefits of making a video is that I can
focus on just the parts that matter for
any particular step so let's get started
by focusing just on these two triangles
the first thing I will claim is a
triangle BFG is similar to triangle BCA
this is because both triangles share the
common angle B and their other angles
are equal because they are corresponding
angles of parallel lines GF + AC next we
have that BC divided by b F is equal to
the square root of 2 this is because the
triangles are similar and it's given
that AC / GF is equal to the square root
of 2 now we're going to do the same sort
of thing with another set of triangles
here we have the triangle CH I is
similar to triangle CBA why is that well
they share a common angle C and the
other angles are equal because H I and a
B are given to be parallel so we now can
conclude that b c / HC is equal to the
square root of 2 that's because the
triangles are similar and we were given
that ba / h i is equal to the square
root of 2 so what can we do with this
well we have two different fractions
that are equal to the square root of 2
so they must be equal to each other
furthermore their numerators are both
b/c this means their denominators must
also be equal so we have HC is equal to
bf now we're going to go back
to our original diagram the next thing
to notice is that this shape dy HB is a
parallelogram that's because the
opposite sides are given to be parallel
from the given information we will also
have that ze CF is a parallelogram for
the same sort of reason so now we start
out that dy is equal to B H because
they're opposite sides of a
parallelogram then BH is equal to BC
minus HC we just proved that bf is equal
to HC so this is equal to BC minus bf
but B C minus B F is equal to FC and
then FC is equal to ze because they're
opposite sides of a parallelogram so we
proven that dy is equal to ze and we're
done with the first part of this
question now let's go to the second part
of the question we need to find the
exact value of the ratio Y Z divided by
BC so on a problem like this it's not
exactly clear how to approach it and how
to get to the end result so just start
out with some information that you do
know well we do know that Y Z is equal
to de minus dy minus ze we just proved
that dy is equal to ze so we can then
say this is equal to de minus 2 x ze
next ze is equal to FC because we have
opposite sides of a parallelogram well
you men replace FC with BC minus bf and
we're getting closer to putting
everything in terms of BC now recall
that bf is equal to BC divided by the
square root of 2 so we can substitute
that in now all we need to do is put de
in terms of BC but that was also given
information de is equal to BC divided by
the square root of 2 so we now factor
out the BC and simplify and we get the
following expression we then just need
to divide both sides by BC so that we
get
why Z divided by B C is equal to 3 minus
2 times the square root of 2 all over
the square root of 2 and that's our
answer did you figure it out thanks for
watching these videos available for free
on YouTube build confidence for students
and inspire mathematical discovery for
viewers around the world they have over
a hundred million views and we now have
over 1 million subscribers thank you
please subscribe for free to get the
news videos and email me a puzzle or
topic at presh at mind your decisions
comm TV so choose you can check out my
merchandise and my books which are
listed in the video description and you
can support me on patreon for exclusive
rewards thanks for watching and thanks
for your support